Your use of language has altered since our arrival. It is currently laced with, shall I say, more colorful metaphors-- "Double dumb-ass on you" and so forth.
Life is not a dream.
[looking at Kirk for several seconds] Yes.
This is a new brig, Captain. Completely escape-proof. To guarantee that, they used the most intelligent, most resourceful person they could find.  He was unable to escape. -- He did have pointed ears.
[tapping continues] I believe it is a primitive form of communication known as Morse Code.
The dismantling of our space stations and starbases along the Neutral Zone, an end to almost 70 years of unremitting hostility which the Klingons can no longer afford.
If I were human, I believe my response would be "go to Hell." [Kirk looks at Spock] If I were human.
[to Picard] In your own way, you are as stubborn as another Captain of the Enterprise I once knew.
Since it is logical to conclude that you will kill us in any event, I choose not to cooperate.
You of all people should know, Cadet Kirk. A captain cannot cheat death.
The purpose is to experience fear. Fear in the face of certain death. To accept that fear, and maintain control of oneself and one's crew. This is a quality expected in every Starfleet captain.
[breaks off; to McCoy] Doctor, I am emotionally compromised and no longer fit for command, please note the time and date in the ship's log.
Your illogical approach to chess does have its advantages on occasion, Captain.
Instruments register only those things they're designed to register. Space still contains infinite unknowns
Yes, and what makes one man an exceptional leader? We see indications that it's his negative side which makes him strong, that his evil side, controlled and disciplined, is vital to his strength. Your negative side removed from you, the power of command begins to elude you.
Being split in two halves is no theory with me, Doctor. I have a human half and an alien half at war with each other. Personal experience, Doctor. I survive because my intelligence wins, makes them live together. Your intelligence would enable you to survive, as well.
[to Captain Kirk] You're the captain of this ship. You haven't the right to be vulnerable in the eyes of the crew. You can't afford the luxury of being anything less than perfect. If you do, they lose faith and you lose command.
The fact that my internal arrangement differs from yours, Doctor, pleases me no end.
I am a carrier. Whatever happens, I can't go back to the ship. And I do want to go back to the ship, Captain.
We disposed of emotion, Doctor. Where there's no emotion, there's no motive for violence. 
Captain... Jim, don't stop me! Don't let him stop me! It's your career, and Captain Pike's life! You must see the rest of the transmission!
It is for them, Doctor. Vulcan, like Earth, had its aggressive colonizing period, savage even by Earth standards. If Romulans retain this martial philosophy, then weakness is something we dare not show. 
I picked this up from Dr. McCoy's log. We have a crew member on board who is showing signs of stress and fatigue. Reaction time down 9 to 12 percent. Associational reading Norm 3.
Enjoy yourself, Captain. It's an interesting planet. I believe you'll find it quite pleasant, very much like your Earth. Scouts have detected no animals, artifacts, or forcefields of any kind. Only peace, sunshine, and good air. You'll have no problems. 
On my planet, to rest is to rest — to cease using energy.  To me, it is quite illogical to run up and down on green grass, using energy, instead of saving it.
That is a most illogical attitude. It is more rational to sacrifice one life than six.
Doctor, I am not responsible for their unpredictability.
I realize that command does have its fascination, even under circumstances such as these, but I neither enjoy the idea of command nor am I frightened of it.  It simply exists, and I will do whatever logically needs to be done.
Quite simply, Captain. I examined the problem from all angles, and it was plainly hopeless. Logic informed me that, under the circumstances, the only possible action would have to be one of desperation. Logical decision, logically arrived at.
I object to you. I object to intellect without discipline. I object to power without constructive purpose.
It is impossible for Captain Kirk to act out of panic or malice.  It is not his nature.
I prefer the concrete, the graspable, the proveable.
Insufficient facts always invite danger.
Superior ability breeds superior ambition.
[To a guard] Sir, there's a multi-legged creature crawling on your shoulder. [Uses Vulcan nerve pinch on guard]
Practicing a peculiar variety of diplomacy, sir. [Fires phaser]
Captain, you almost make me believe in luck.
I have never understood the female capacity to avoid a direct answer to any question.
I am what I am, Leila, and if there are self-made purgatories, then we all have to live in them.
The Horta has a very logical mind and after close association with humans, I find that curiously refreshing.
Difficult to be precise, Captain. I should say approximately seven thousand eight hundred twenty four point seven to one.
I endeavour to be accurate.
Madness has no purpose.  Or reason.  But it may have a goal.
Annihilation Jim. Total, complete, absolute annihilation.
I'm afraid I'm going to be difficult to explain in any case, Captain.
I am endeavoring, Madam, to construct a mnemonic memory circuit using stone knives and bear skins.
Pain is a thing of the mind.  The mind can be controlled.
I had a most startling dream.  You were trying to tell me something...but I couldn't hear you.  [Chapel is crying] It would be illogical for us to protest against our natures, don't you think?
Stonn.  She is yours. After a time, you may find that having is not so pleasing a thing, after all, as wanting.  It is not logical, but it is often true.
[After realizing that Kirk is not, in fact, dead.] Jim! [Catching himself before he displays further emotion] I am... pleased to see you, Captain.
(Explaining to Kirk how the mirror versions were so quickly spotted) It was far easier for you as civilized men to behave like barbarians than it was for them as barbarians to behave like civilized men.
Trick or treat, Captain?
[pointing to Alice #27] I love you. [looking to Alice #210] However, I hate you.
Logic is a little tweeting bird, chirping in a meadow. Logic is a wreath of pretty flowers which smell bad.
It [being a Vulcan] means to adopt a philosophy, a way of life, which is logical and beneficial.  We cannot disregard that philosophy merely for personal gain, no matter how important that gain might be.
"Oochy wootchy koochy coo," Captain?
"The child was named Leonard...James...Akaar?!"
Women are more easily and more deeply terrified, generating more sheer horror than the male of the species.
Computer.  This is a Class-A compulsory directive.  Compute, to the last digit, the value of pi.
Doctor, I am well aware of human characteristics. I am frequently inundated by them, but I've trained myself to put up with practically anything.
To deny the facts would be illogical, Doctor.
(in a "gangster voice") I would advise yas ta keep dialin', Oxmyx!
Tell Doctor McCoy... he should have wished me luck.
I've noticed that about your people, Doctor. You find it easier to understand the death of one than the death of a million. You speak about the objective hardness of the Vulcan heart, yet how little room there seems to be in yours. 
You should make a very convincing Nazi, Captain.
Dunsel, Doctor, is a word used by cadets at Starfleet Academy. It refers to a part of the ship that serves no useful purpose.
Live long and prosper.
I reserve the privilege of speaking when it will not violate my honour, as a Vulcan.
It is not a lie to keep the truth to oneself.
Military secrets are the most fleeting of all.
Without followers, evil cannot spread.
Those who hate and fight must stop themselves, Doctor, otherwise it is not stopped.
The renowned Tholian punctuality.
We must accept the fact that Captain Kirk is no longer alive.
Take care, young ladies, and value your wine; Be watchful of young men in their velvet prime; Deeply they'll swallow from your finest kegs; Then swiftly be gone; Leaving bitter dregs; Ah, ah, bitter dregs.  With smiling words and tender touch; Man offers little and asks for so much; He loves in the breathless excitement of night; Then leaves with your treasure in cold morning light; Ah, ah... in cold morning light.
Captain Kirk speaks somewhat figuratively and with undue emotion. However, what he says is logical, and I do, in fact, agree with it. 
Your Excellency, I am basically a scientist. Clarity of formulation is essential in my profession, also.
They regard themselves as aliens in their own world, a condition with which I am somewhat familiar.
It is, uh... somewhat, uh... uncomplimentary, Captain. Herbert was a minor official... notorious for his rigid and limited patterns of thought.
Violence in reality is quite different from theory.
We are in a wilderness of arctic characteristics.
Fascinating.
I have been and ever shall be your friend.
According to my research, you and the crew of the Farragut were assigned many of the same missions, had many of the same experiences, shared many of the same crises as the crew of the Enterprise.
Captain, the 'Slingshot Effect' is not precise.
Without the proper preparation, you would be annihilated along with everything else in your path. First, we must gather more information.
The needs of the many outweigh the needs of the few.
You are suggesting the admiral violated every regulation he vowed to uphold simply because he wanted to exploit your intellect.
